# system-information-script
A lightweight and portable Bash script that displays detailed system information in a clean and readable format.

It gathers key details about your system including CPU, memory, disk usage, networking, GPU, and more — all in one command.

# Features
* General system information (user, OS, shell, uptime, etc.)
* Kernel details
*  Disk usage statistics
*🧠 Memory usage and utilization
*🔥 CPU info (cores, threads, usage, temperature)
🎮* GPU detection
🌐* Network details:
  * Interface (WiFi / Ethernet)
  * Public & private IP
  * MAC address
🔗  * Active connections count
🧩  * LVM detection
👥  * Number of active users

# How to run ?

* clone the file and put it in a global path, see `echo $PATH`, usually in local `~/.local/bin/`.
* Make it executable `chmod +x system_info.sh` -> also you can change it's name `mv system_info.sh system_info`.
* Run it `system_info` or `system_info | less -R` -> if you want to move up or down, it's long so recommended.
* At the beginning of the file I have directed all errors generated by the script into `/dev/null` -> `exec 2>/dev/null`. If there is an information that isn't shown to you (blank), you can comment this command to see what is the wrong.


# ▶️Usage

* Run the script directly:
  `system_info`

* For better navigation (recommended for long output):
  `system_info | less -R`


# Notes
* The script suppresses errors by default using:
`exec 2>/dev/null`

>[!note]If something is missing or not displayed, comment this line to debug issues.

# Added lately

### 28/2/2026:
* Fixing CPU information, total number of cores, threads, Temperature,...
* Fixing Memory informations.
* Try to make the script works globally as possible on different distros.

### 20/3/2026
* Fixing the IP address information and network interface.
* Adding MAC address for the network interface used (ethernet or WIFI)
* Adding number of programs/ applications/ .. connected with the device .
* Adding number of commands executed by sudo using `journalctl _COMM=sudo`, which giving exactly the log files for this specific process/ command .



### Sample output of the script will be like:

```bash
==General info==
Distro name: Debian GNU/Linux 13 (trixie)
Current user: user
Shell: bash
System language: en_US.UTF-8
Terminal: xterm-kitty
Window manager: Hyprland
Session: wayland
Machine running time: 13 hours, 21 minutes

==Kernel info==
Kernel version: Linux, 6.12.69+deb13-amd64
CPU Archi type: x86_64

==Disk==
Total Disk space: 452G
Disk used space: 132G (31%)
Free disk space: 298G

==Memory==
Currently memory used: 5.0Gi
Currently memory available: 10Gi
Swap used: 1.8Mi
Swap free: 15Gi

==CPU==
Model Name: Intel Core i7-10870H
CPU cores: 8
CPU Temp: 20°C

==GPU==
Intel UHD Graphics
NVIDIA RTX 3050 Mobile

==Networking==
Hostname: my-machine
Public IP: xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
Private IP: xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
```

# Dependencies

* Most tools are pre-installed on modern Linux systems, but ensure you have:
  * bash
  * awk, sed, grep
  * ip (iproute2)
  * ss
  * curl
  * lscpu
  * lspci

* Optional:
  * lshw → for detailed GPU info

# Compatibility
* Designed for Linux systems
* Tested on Debian-based distributions and RedHat based (Fedora, Rocky, ...)
* Should work on most distros with minimal changes.

# Tips
* Run with `less -R` for scrollable colored output.
* Use `sudo` for potentially more complete hardware info.
* Uncomment debug suppression if something looks wrong.
